# Bat-Cave-2021-Bats
Data cleaning, analytics, and visualization of bat species and their use of the Phoenix Bat Cave

The Phoenix Bat Cave, located at 43rd Street and Camelback Rd in Phoenix, AZ, was monitored for bat activity for the entirety of 2021. The Bat Cave is a large flood control structure in downtown Phoenix that has become an important year round roosting site for bats in the urban environment. A Wildlife Acoustics Echometer Mini Bat recorder was deployed approximately 100 meters from the mouth of the cave and 5 meters above ground level in 2021. A total of 271 nights of echolocation recordings were collected over the course of the year starting December 2020 and ending December 2021. Recordings were analyzed with Wildlife Acoustics Kaleidoscope Pro Software, with parameters set for a minimum of five echolocation pulses and on conservative identification of bat call recording identification. Each species identified by the software was positively identified manually, but not all calls were manually identified. For this reason, counts should be viewed as estimates rather than absolute positive counts of bat detections. A total of 10 species were positively identified at the mouth of the Bat Cave. Of these species Mexican free-tailed bats (TADBRA) were by far the most abundant, composing approximately 51.9% of positively identified calls. Silver haired (LASNOC) and big brown bats (EPTFUS) were of secondary importance composing approximately 7.1 to 7.8% respectively of positively identified calls. Hoary bats (LASCIN) were found to be approximately 2.6% of positively identified calls with all other species being under 1% of positively identified calls. Bat activity and species varied throughout the course of the year with April through October having the highest levels of activity and species present. High levels of bat activity were found year round with certain species being more common during different times of the year.


1. [Analysis](https://github.com/haberkornm/Bat-Cave-2021-Bats/blob/main/Bat%20Cave%202021.ipynb)  Code for cleaning, statistics, and data visualization of Bat Cave Bats 2021
2. [Weekly Bat Detection Average](https://github.com/haberkornm/Bat-Cave-2021-Bats/blob/main/batcaveweekly.csv)  Clean weekly averages of data
3. [Raw Data](https://github.com/haberkornm/Bat-Cave-2021-Bats/blob/main/Bat%20Cave%20Master.xlsx)  Raw data of bat species counts
